Best Email marketing tool (2022)
Email marketing is the most profitable and cost-effective direct marketing channel, with a $42 average ROI for every $1 spent.

Email should be a key component of your digital marketing strategy for this reason alone. Not using email marketing is equivalent to leaving money on the table.

However, it is perfectly normal to be unsure of where to begin. Email is a vast subject. Beginners can easily become lost in a sea of tools, techniques, and terminology, so we've covered the best Email Marketing tools for you based on your needs.

Top 8 Best Email Marketing Software of 2022
Best Overall: Mailchimp
Best Affordable Option: Moosend
Best All-in-One Marketing Suite: Hubspot
Best for Experienced Marketers: Campaigner
Best for fully Integrated Business Suite: Zoho Campaigns
Best for Automation: Active Campaign
Easiset to use: Mailer lite
Best for E-commerce: Drip
1) Mailchimp
Mailchimp has long dominated the email marketing space and hopes to maintain that dominance by expanding into e-commerce, allowing merchants to create online stores, and evolving the platform into a multichannel marketing hub.

Pros	Cons
Full marketing hub
Workable free tier with flexible pricing
Websites and e-commerce plans bring revenue-sharing options
Adds turnkey e-commerce for merchants
Lackluster email template experience
Campaign tracking is limited and somewhat difficult
Aside from its free plan, there are also three paid plans, which vary in cost based on how many subscribers you have (nonprofits receive a 15% discount):

Essentials: $9.99 to $270 per month
Standard: $14.99 to $540 per month
Premium: $299 to $1,190 per month
If you're looking for a market-leading email marketing solution, there's no denying that Mailchimp has held that position for quite some time. Despite the fact that it has been steadily adding other marketing features, the new tools aren't as fully baked as those in some competitors' offerings. Consider other options if you're looking for a comprehensive digital marketing package.

2) Moosend
Moosend is the most affordable option not only because its paid plans are less expensive than most on the market, but also because you can pay by the number of subscribers or the number of emails sent, whichever is the cheapest option for you. Furthermore, its tools are user-friendly, making it simple to send out appealing and timely emails to your target audience.

Pros	Cons
Lowest plan costs
Option to pay only when you send emails
Easy to customize templates or use one from the template library
Can’t send emails from a Gmail or Hotmail address
Less-sophisticated user interface
Limited integrations
The Free Forever plan from Moosend includes 1,000 subscribers, and there are also Pro and Enterprise plans with tiered pricing. For pricing on the Enterprise plan, please contact Moosend. The price of the Pro Plan is determined by the number of subscribers. The monthly cost is shown below, but annual billing receives a 20% discount. If you are a nonprofit, you will also receive a 25% discount.

Up to 2,000 subscribers: $10 per month
2,001 to 2,500 subscribers: $20 per month
2,501 to 5,000 subscribers: $30 per month
5,001 to 8,000 subscribers: $40 per month
Moosend is one of the most affordable email marketing tools on the market, but it's powerful enough to handle most email marketing campaigns for small businesses, earning it our top spot as the most cost-effective option. It allows you to pay based on the number of subscribers or the number of emails sent, allowing you to choose the most cost-effective option for your business.

3) Hubspot
HubSpot Marketing Hub is an established end-to-end martech solution with an impressive feature set that covers sales, email marketing, and marketing automation with enough flexibility to serve large or small businesses.

Pros	Cons
CRM integration included
Vast selection of social media management options
Stellar marketing automation
Offers integrations with other HubSpot solutions
Expensive
Steep learning curve
There is a 14-day free trial period, after which you must subscribe to one of their three paid plans. While it is free to store an unlimited number of contacts, you will be charged an additional fee if the number of emails you send exceeds the included limit. If you pay annually, you can save 10% on the first two plans (the Enterprise plan must be paid annually).

Starter (up to 1,000 contacts): $50 per month
Professional (up to 2,000 contacts): $800 per month
Enterprise (up to 10,000 contacts): $3,200 per month
If you're happy with your current CRM and sales tools, HubSpot as your email marketing tool is probably overkilled. HubSpot, on the other hand, has a lot to offer if you're looking for a single solution that integrates CRM, email, and other features. Just be aware that the price will not be cheap, and the extensive feature set may result in a steep learning curve.

4) Campaigner
Campaigner outperforms the competition with reasonably priced email marketing, automation, and analytic features that work well for both experienced and inexperienced digital marketers.

Pros	Cons
Accessible 24/7 customer support
Productivity-focused UI
Wide range of templates and options
Comprehensive onboarding and online resources
Requires credit card for free trial
No free version
Migrating from other solutions isn't easy
Campaigner offers a 30-day free trial as well as transparent, affordable, and flexible pricing.

Up to 5k contacts : $59/ mo
Up to 5k contacts : $179/ mo
Up to 5k contacts : $649/ mo
Unlimited contacts: $79.95/ mo
When it comes to email campaigns, Campaigner is the way to go. However, Campaigner might be your best option if your company is mid-sized or larger and you require an email marketing system that can scale to mass-marketing campaigns aimed at huge email lists. However, if you want a system that incorporates more all-purpose marketing automation technologies and your operations aren't quite as ambitious, you might want to seek elsewhere.

5) Zoho Campaigns
You may create the exact toolkit you need by integrating Zoho Campaigns with all of Zoho's other SMB software products. Although its cost may be a little high for some, it also excels at automation and tracking.

Pros	Cons
Well-designed campaign and marketing tools
Convenient integration with Zoho CRM
Outstanding reports feature
Dated email template designs
Initial setup takes time
Could be a costly solution for some SMBs
For 500 contacts Zoho Campaigns pricing is as follows:

6,000 emails : $0/ mo
Unlimited email: $86.25/ mo
Unlimited email and standard +: $258.75/ mo
If the idea of an integrated suite of business apps with a dependable, attractive user interface appeals to you, Zoho should be high on your list of potential vendors.

You'll also benefit from having a single point of contact for support across many teams. We have a hard time, though, endorsing Zoho Campaigns at the current price if a solo email marketing system is what you're looking for and you don't require the other products Zoho offers.

6) Active Campaign
The finest email marketing software for automation is ActiveCampaign, which offers hundreds of pre-built automation to assist you in customising campaigns for each subscriber. As you set up the platform, there are help manuals available everywhere, and ActiveCampaign offers prompt, courteous customer service.

Pros	Cons
Great automation features that simplify customer interactions
Helpful, friendly, and fast customer support
All plan levels include data migration and implementation services
CRM with sales automation included for free (For a limited time)
Has 850+ integrations with the most popular software
Learning curve can be a challenge
Lite plan is very limited (and includes ActiveCampaign branding)
Plans quickly jump in price with the number of contacts
The software is available for a 14-day free trial. Following that, you must subscribe to one of the four paid plans, which can be paid monthly or annually. Depending on the plan, the annual payment discount ranges from 15% to 40%. The cost of each plan is also determined by the number of contacts you have (nonprofits receive a 20% discount).

Lite: $15+ per month
Plus: $70+ per month
Professional: $159+ per month
Enterprise: $279+ per month
ActiveCampaign has an advantage in this category because it helps businesses create customised automation to increase subscriber engagement. The interface is simple to use, intuitive and includes resources to help with any questions that may arise during the process. It also includes sales automation, allowing your marketing and sales processes to collaborate to generate more revenue.

7) Mailer Lite
Because of its drag-and-drop interface, MailerLite is the simplest email marketing programme to use and enables you to easily construct the look you desire. The company's purpose is centred on simplicity, hence the programme has a streamlined and clean appearance.

Pros	Cons
Drag-and-drop interface makes it easy to design emails
Free plan for up to 1,000 contacts
Email support
Lots of email templates to choose from
Doesn’t include CRM functionalities (Though it allows for integration)
Limited integrations
Need to provide a lot of company information to get an account set up
It provides a free-forever plan with 1,000 subscribers and 12,000 email sends. There is a paid plan if you require more bandwidth or want more advanced features (such as the ability to remove MailerLite branding). The cost is determined by the number of subscribers. You can pay monthly or annually, but an annual plan saves you 30%. Nonprofits are also eligible for a 30% discount. Here's how much it will cost:

Up to 1,000 contacts: $10 per month
1,001 to 2,500 contacts: $15 per month
2,501 to 5,000 contacts: $30 per month
5,001 to 10,000 contacts: $50 per month
All of the necessary components for email marketing are present in MailerLite, which does not overburden its platform with complex functionality. This makes it the ideal choice for companies searching for an easy-to-understand method of email marketing that they can learn in a matter of days rather than months.

8) Drip
Because of its comprehensive workflows and cutting-edge list segmentation, Drip is the ideal email marketing tool for e-commerce enterprises.

This combination results in subscribers receiving timely follow-ups based on their interactions with your emails and tailored emails that are triggered by their purchase behaviours on your website.

Pros	Cons
Simple yet powerful drip campaigns
Easy to set up and use
Excellent customer support
Sophisticated contact list segmentation
Lacks a few key integrations
No drag-and-drop functionality for designing templates
Support only available weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CST
Drip offers a 14-day free trial and one monthly plan that ranges from $19 to $1,599 depending on the number of contacts in your account. Here are some examples of prices:

Up to 500 contacts: $19 per month
501 to 2,000 contacts: $29 per month
2,001 to 2,500 contacts: $39 per month
2,501 to 3,000 contacts: $49 per month
Drip was created with e-commerce in mind, therefore its lead generation forms, processes, and email templates were created with e-commerce best practices in mind. You may hyper-target your campaigns with its powerful segmentation and customisation to boost user engagement.

Free Email Marketing Services
The majority of the email marketing services stated above offer free trials so you can choose whether is ideal for you or not. However, some of the above-mentioned services also offer free forever life plans, which are as follows.

Mailchimp
Mailer lite
Zoho Campaigns
Moosend
Best Email Marketing Practises?
In addition to using email marketing services, you should be aware of some of the top email marketing strategies for increased benefit.

Avoid buying contact lists.
The sender's email address should not contain the word "No-Reply."
Use no more than three typefaces at a time.
Improve the preview text for the email.
Include a signature in emails.
Regularly purge your mailing list.
Keep the key point and call to action prominently displayed.
Make the email's salutation unique.
Aim for a width of 500–650 pixels for your email.
Split-test various calls to action and topic lines.
Put your logo here.
In the subject line, mention the offer.
Permit readers to sign up for your newsletter.
Create topic lines that are intriguing but succinct.
For opt-ins, use autoresponders.
Connect emails and landing sites closely.
Test the system for five seconds.